R055: Dearest Deme/za,
I feel your absence keen/y.
Yet I rely upon your wonden‘u/ resourcefulness
to keep the home ﬁres ablaze W I return.
My dearest Ross, mind I don't blaze you
if ever you deign to come home again!
(Birdsong)
Where shall we dine?
I regret I have a prior engagement.
Who dares take priority over me?
Prime Minister.
Captain Poldark.
I'm glad to hear your Poor Relief scheme
succeeded in Cornwall.
And I've every sympathy for a bill
to implement it across the nation.
But it will not be passed.
Why? Because too many of our Members
deem it in their interest
to keep the "small man" in his place.
Then I must ask myself why I became
a Member, if not to change that.
Your impulse is sound
and I believe its time will come.
- And in the meantime?
- Take care of those you can.
Help those who cannot help themselves.
- Your wife? Is she in London?
- In Truro.
I rely on her to keep me appraised of
all that occurs in my absence.
Does she ever visit?
How could I bring her?
Who would manage Cornwall?
(Chuckles)
(Lively chatter)
Forgive me, sir.
Where might I find Dr Enys?
I've mislaid him these three weeks.
Forgive me. I've been advising Dr Behenna
at the new infirmary.
It opens in a fortnight.
And between that and my patients...
And tryin' not to think of Caroline?
Oh, Caroline will insist on
invading my thoughts.
Though not, alas, my home.
(Bell rings)
(Door opens)
Nat Pearce...has croaked.
How tragic.
Foolish, foolish old man.
Is it true, Father?
He stole money from his clients' funds
and gambled it away?
Not gambled. Speculated.
Though some might say it's the same thing,
since the money was lost.
- Could you not have prevented him?
- By the time I found out, the damage was done.
But Pasc0e's Bank stands guarantor
for those funds
and I intend to honour them in full.
- Can you?
- We'll be somewhat pinched,
_ but if no other strain
IS placed on our resources...
Ah, there you are, wife.
Father-in-law.
Mm. Deuced glad I trusted him
with none of my capital.
I hope you're keeping it safe, sir.
Rest assured, St John, your entire
marriage settlement remains untouched.
(Music, chatter and laughter)
CAROLINE:
"Help those who cannot help themselves"?
_ At least it's a mission_.
Since you cannot bear to be wrthout one.
Is that how you see me?
My dear, you must always be
about some scheme or another.
When do you ever stand by and do nothing?
- (Cheering)
- Drink up, Poldark.
Oh, go on!
He would hardly thank me
for showing him up in front of his friends.
MEN: Ohh!
- on.
Oh, shame on you, Poldark.
Kitty will be disappointed
if you cannot stand to attention.
(Laughter)
A brace of Poldarks.
Quel embarras de richesses.
We were just leaving.
Deserting your post?
Is the pace too warm for your nephew?
On the contrary.
I think he found it rather dull.
To Nathaniel Pearce, Esquire,
and his most helpful demise.
Mm.
Perhaps now would be a good time
to resume your "literary career".
With himself safely in the ground.
GEORGE
It comes to the notice of a well-w/sner
that you entrust your savings
to Pascoe/s Bank.
I must inform you
it is on the verge of insolvency,
owing to the crimma/ activities
of Pascoe is accomplice, Nathaniel Pearce,
who has been permitted to embezzle
funds entrusted to him.
I therefore advise you to withdraw your
deposits from Pascoe's Bank without delay.
We will continue this later.
(Clears his throat)
- What was that letter?
- Oh, business.
- Pertaining to Ross?
- Why would you think so?
You've a particular expression
when conspiring against him.
- (Laughs)
- I've seen it many times.
I can assure you, there was
no mention of Ross in that letter.
Yet I wonder
why you're so keen to protect him.
It is you I'm keen to protect, George.
From your own imaginings,
which have injured us both in the past.
_ But on this_ occasion _
I see It was my Imagining, so forgive me.
Hm.
Does Adderley not know
who the boy's stepfather is?
Do you think he cares?
Still, I'm glad to see
you're resolved not to interfere.
Perhaps we all need a little distance
from London.
(Birdsong)
JEREMY: This one's huge.
- Good boy.
How many have you got?
(Music drowns chatter)
Yes! Well done.
I thought 'ee should know, Mistress,
old Nat Pearce is dead.
Oh.
And...?
Well, 'tis said he left his affairs in disarray.
Talk of embezzlements and the like.
- But Ross had no dealings with him.
- Pasc0e's Bank did.
And now 'tis said there may be a crash
and that Pascoe's be no longer a safe place
to keep money.
Judas!
I come again to ask 'ee.
And my answer is the same.
Thank 'ee kindly. But no.
But why?
There be no hope of resurrectin' this.
So why not come and live with me in Sawle?
Because I'd not disrespect Rosina
by showing my face there again.
I'm minded to start afresh,
maybe 'list as a soldier or go to sea.
Morwenna's dead to me.
And I'll not injure Rosina more.
So I'll see what may be salvaged 'ere
and then I'll be on my way.
(Birdsong)
I thank you. Leave me.
(Footsteps approach)
My dear, are you quite well?
You seem very pale.
I believe I may be...
sickening for something.
You must look after yourself, my dear.
LADY WHITWORTH: Morwenna!
My daughter-in-law had no business
to send for you.
I cannot imagine
what she has to complain of.
I'll be happy to ascertain that
if I might see her alone.
She has no secrets from me.
Then doubtless she'll give you a full account
once I've examined her.
Your note mentioned tremors.
Palpitations? Nausea?
If you would furnish me more details,
I could perhaps prescribe...
Oblivion?
Can you supply that?
Yes.
But first I might ask
what you wish to escape.
I might also tell you that I myself
once wished for such a thing.
When I returned from France, with my senses
numbed and my nerves frayed...
And violated?
As I have been violated.
My husband, before he died...
I understand.
And I urge you to put all thoughts of him
behind you.
Look to the future, with hope.
I wish that were possible.
God go with 'ee, maid.
And thee, sir.
Rosina...
What passed 'twixt thee an' my brother,
I believe he did wrong.
A promise is a promise,
and should not be broke on a whim.
'Twas not a whim, sir.
For he loved she afore he ever saw me
and when she was widowed,
he felt he must go to her.
So I respect him.
I don't respect her.
She's free now,
yet she've turned 'im away.
If she truly loved 'im, why did she so?
That I cannot answer.
And perhaps I've no right
to speak to thee of Drake at all.
But if 'ee'll allow me...
R055:
Then there’s only one th/ng you can do.
Which would put a seal on George's trust
which no-one could dispute.
Give him another child.
That cannot alter what's gone before.
It could...
if there were some confusion over the dates.
If it could seem to him
another eight-month-child...
Mama?
Gentlemen, please.
Gentlemen, have patience.
I will see you all in turn.
It's _true that some of the funds Nat Pearce
misappropriated carried our guarantee.
They will be honoured in full.
There's not the slightest threat
to the stability of the bank.
Unless all of my old clients
proceed as you wish to do
and suddenly withdraw, in full,
deposits which have lain with us for years.
(Door opens)
Mistress Poldark, what a pleasure.
A glass of port?
Thank you, no, sir.
'Tis the end of the month, and as you know,
our usual custom...
Is to draw money for wages.
Of course. 500?
I will instruct my clerk.
But, sir, I bethink if you're in such trouble...
You wish to safeguard yourself
by taking more?
I quite understand.
Captain Poldark has over
3,000 to his credit.
_ But I'd esteem _it a favour
If you'd not take It all at once.
In a week, I hope,
we will have weathered the storm.
Yes, I did hear rumours of the crisis
at Pascoe's Bank.
But...l assume it will blow over.
Forgive me, my Lord,
I don't rightly understand these things,
and dearly wish Ross were here to help,
but in his absence...
It's the end of the month
and I went to draw money to pay our wages
but I found I could not.
- You mean Pasc0e's could not pay you?
- No, I mean I could not withdraw it.
IfI do, 'twill encourage others
to do the same, and...
Pascoe has been Ross's friend
these 20 years.
Surely now is the time to put money in,
not draw it out.
Your concern was not needed, Uncle.
Everyone in London has their little amours,
everyone gambles and drinks to excess.
On their stepfather's money?
Why could you not have been my stepfather?
I could never fund your education
or your escapades.
I suggest you retain George's favour.
Believe me, it's the only reason I tolerate him.
(Ross and Geoffrey Charles chuckle)
Well, 'tis not only advice I seek,
my Lord, but...
...a loan.
2,000. To meet our wages.
How many men do you employ?
Erm, I can't rightly remember.
From conversations with your husband,
I would guess that 800
would more than cover your needs.
May I offer you a word of advice?
Loyalty is admirable but it's unwise
to be governed by sentiment.
This money is for you and your mine.
Not to prop up a shaky bank in Truro.
No, my Lord.
I'm that grateful, my Lord.
I wonder who his father would've preferred.
- For his stepfather.
- Neither of us.
George may be a moral bankrupt, but
I could never have made Elizabeth happy.
She requires a life of ease and luxury.
And you require?
A wife who's willing to dirty her hands.
(Lively chatter)
(Raised voices)
Excuse me, sirs,
where must I go to pay money in?
Pardon me, sirs.
Pray excuse me, sir.
I 'ave money to pay in.
Which way must I go?
Good day, Mr Martin,
you're not here to withdraw funds?
No, ma'am. Deposit.
As I've done every month these 20 years.
An' I, sir. 30 years.
And 'ave no reason to stop now.
I be new to these parts.
And have been recommended?
Oh, yeah, and have been recommended
to this bank
on account of it bein', er...
Safer than Bodmin Jail.
For, once in, there's no gettin' out.
And truly,
I declare I'd trust Pasc0e's with my life.
(All talk at once)
(Cry of seagulls)
- I was only thinkin' of...
- What?
That I'm so marr'd and dainty,
I can't abide to look at 'ee now?
Or hear folks' gossip?
"Poor Rosina, twice let down,
and maybe now she'll never wed."
There be no words too wicked
for the wrong that I did 'ee.
Hush yer creenin'.
'Tis I was jilted, not thee.
And if I can stay and bear it, so can 'ee.
GEORGE: So Pascoe is clinging on.
But are we to be thwarted
by a scullery maid?
I think not.
My dear St John, how good of you
to respond so promptly to our note.
Concerning your outstanding loans with us.
Which, of course, you're happy to renew?
The season's been damned expensive.
And as cousin to
the Honourable Member for Truro,
I must look the part
if I'm to benefit from the association.
Cousin? To Ross Poldark?
Did we know that?
Not wanting to be a killjoy...
but capital's scarce.
Our bank lately financed several schemes
which ran into difﬁculties.
Not unlike those which ruined Nat Pearce.
So, regrettably, we find ourselves obliged
to call in a number of our short-term loans.
Including yours.
What?
Gentlemen, this is a poor jest.
But... But that's outrageous.
You surely recall
how I chose to retain you as my bankers,
even though my wife Joan
urged me to bank with her father.
And this is how you repay me?
And you'll recall your wife's dowry -
a considerable sum -
still resides at her father's bank.
I suggest you call upon it now.
- I believe it will almost cover your debts.
- Mm.
Preposterous. Disgraceful.
I should add that this unfortunate situation
is temporary.
Should you then apply to us for credit...
Oh. Oh, I see.
A mere three months?
Though I beg you not to mention
our present difficulties,
for fear it should frighten our investors.
Of course.
You can rely on my discretion.
Ah, Dr Enys.
How go the preparations
for the grand opening?
Of the infirmary?
Gratifying for we subscribers
to see the fruits of our labours.
At any rate, the fruits of your donations.
One cannot do _too much
for the deservmg poor.
As you yourself demonstrate
by your generous support of Ross's scheme.
Ah, yes, we are quite the charitable cabal.
A pity his obligations in Westminster
keep him from Cornwall.
So much afoot which he is sadly missing.
Never learn, do 'ee?
Brother Tom did say
'ee were a stubborn |i|' tacker.
My brother do wish for no trouble.
And yet it do always seem to find 'im.
Ignore him. Come on.
- Mama.
- My darling.
- The prodigal returns.
- Is that me or you?
- Will you take some refreshment?
- I assume George is from home?
Thank you for taking him under your wing.
- And for bringing him home.
- I was glad to do it.
I've been informed by the Chief Clerk
at Pascoe's Bank
they've closed their doors.
No-one can withdraw money.
Which means, for Ross,
his entire life savings.
- Elizabeth should hear it from me.
- Mm.
I'll be at the infirmary till late.
Tell Bone I'll take supper in my room.
Yes, sir.
Dr Enys?
There's a terrible shortage
of good physicians in London.
I was obliged to come to Cornwall to find one.
And do you have an appointment?
I'm afraid not.
Do you think you might fit me in?
(Driver urges on horses)
R055: To our friendship.
- Yes.
Though I doubt George
would approve of my visit.
- Will you tell him?
- Of course. (Chuckles)
You know him, Ross.
He will never be rid of his doubts,
so why would I provoke them further?
Why, even now...
Yes?
I suspect him of being
about some scheme or other.
Against me? Never!
It's his way.
I've grown used to it.
I'm content.
- Truly?
- Yes.
Truly.
Mama.
Valentine, my love,
is it not time for your supper?
Where's Bessie?
Happy to make your acquaintance, sir.
Bessie, will you take him?
Wait, Bessie.
(Ross stamps his foot)
- A fine boy.
- Yes.
Did you ever think further
of that conversation we had at Sawle Church?
Yes. I'm very mindful of it.
Well, if you see me in Truro,
feel at liberty to ignore me.
I shall.
DRIVER: Go on.
(Whip cracks)
- Who was that?
GEOFFREY CHARLES: Mama.
An unexpected visitor.
Look who's come to stay.
(Birdsong)
(Buzzing)
Can you forgive me?
For leaving you.
It was what you needed.
So there is nothing to forgive.
How was London?
Thrilling, diverting, brutal, cold.
One fears for the young there.
You told me, when Sarah died,
that you were never meant to be a mother.
Do you think so still?
I see I must be on my guard, Dr Enys.
You seem determined to prove
I have feelings after all.
DEMELZA: We have no savings, no wages.
We owe Falmouth 800.
'Ee did all 'ee could, maid.
It wasn't enough.
I could kick myself. Judas, I'm an idiot!
Oh, I doubt that.
Ross!
- Oh, Jeremy.
- Pa!
Good boy.
Let me look at you.
A little thinner, perhaps,
but no idiot as far as I can tell.
Oh, Ross, if only you knew...
Perhaps I do. Pasc0e's Bank?
I met with Zaclq.
He told me of your valiant efforts.
- Which all came to nought.
- Pasc0e's was ruined anyway.
Did I do right or wrong, Ross?
I have to know.
There was a choice to make and...
What?
You are worth all Westminster.
Back for good, are 'ee?
- As 'ee see.
- I mislike it.
And when I mislike a thing,
I make it known.
By burnin' down a forge?
I? What?
Why would 'ee think so?
'Ee do know that arson's a hangin' of fence?
Arson? What? I know naught about that.
Look, my brother did wrong by Rosina,
but she've made 'er peace with him.
Their story be done
and now he've return'd,
ye'll not lay a finger 'pon him.
- Will I not?
- No.
For if 'ee do, you'll 'ave me to answer to.
And though the Lord
do exhort us not to vengeance,
for my brother's sake, I will repay.
My dear Ross,
it's been a miserable business.
Yeah, and I agree, if more of my friends
had been on hand,
we might have weathered the storm, but...
The Basset's Bank have agreed to
take over all my accounts and liabilities.
Why can't the bank be reconstituted as before?
With what capital?
A bank must have capital
before it can start lending.
That is the basis of credit.
Yes. But there's not a bank in England who
can meet all of its creditors at the same time.
But there's no need.
The creditors have sufficient faith in them.
- What has caused yours to waiver?
- The very question I asked myself.
Till somebody showed me this.
Anonymous, of course.
Yet I think we may guess the author.
"A well-wisher"?
Of course, there's no absolute proof.
But...'tis done now.
And on a more cheerful note,
I shan't be entirely redundant.
I've been offered the post of chief clerk
at Basset, Rogers & Co.
- Oh...
- The salary is not to be sneezed at.
No, it's to be spat at.
Truly, Harris,
if I cannot do better for you than that...
Do not attempt it.
This final manoeuvre of the Warleggans,
calling in St John's loan,
just as we hoped we were safe,
it was masterly.
And it will strengthen,
not blacken, their reputation.
For who will dare challenge a family
who have the power to bring down a bank?
Thank you very much
for meeting me this morning.
(Music drowns conversations)
Thank you very much.
Much appreciated. Thank you.
Suppers hot?
I'm not hungry.
Just weary.
Of arguing, riding...
...persuading.
Did you persuade?
There's sympathy for Pascoe
but no offers of capital to restart the bank.
And we still have the problem
of how to pay our men.
What's your opinion?
Mine?
We're partners, are we not?
Well, as your partner, I think first
you should tend to your stomach.
And then...
...maybe tomorrow you could beg Dwight
and Caroline for a loan to pay our wages.
And maybe see if Sir Francis
has aught to suggest.
My thoughts entirely.
- Mistress.
- Zacky.
Erm, Cap'n Ross and I do wish to thank
all our workers for their patience
in bearing with us till we can pay wages.
'Tis well thought on, Mistress.
In return, they'll get a half-day off
and an extra sixpence besides.
'Twill be much appreciated.
And tonight we invite all to Nampara,
where we'll have a bonfire _
and a barrel of ale and star-gazy pie.
Bless 'ee.
It is unfortunate, yes.
And I too was away
when Pasc0e's collapsed.
But in truth, Captain,
the days of the small bank are done.
-_So under the circumstances...
- Circumstances generated by this?
Sent to 50 of Pascoe's most prominent clients.
- It is monstrous.
- I've spoken With many of them.
And most are willing to allow their accounts
to remain in Pascoe's hands
and see him trade again.
That is all well and good,
but who will finance him?
Could Basset's not provide...?
A loan?
It would take him years to repay.
No, I'm sorry,
but the amalgamation which is in process
seems to me the only practical solution.
Why not a new concern?
"Basset's, Rogers, Pascoe & Co"?
It will gain all Pasc0e's clients,
including myself.
Out of the question.
Pasc0e's name would bring with it
an air of failure and misjudgement.
Surely his only misjudgement was to
ever cross swords with the Warleggans?
Are we not agreed, every time
the Warleggans triumph over the smaller man,
it makes the next "small man"
less likely to stand up to them?
It would be a mistake, Captain,
to press too hard from a position of weakness.
Well, then, I appeal to your generosity
and your sense of fair play.
- He threw you out?
- I left before he could.
I could've told you not to press him.
He dislikes to be manoeuvred.
You are the expert in how to direct him?
Did I not persuade him
to make friends with Falmouth?
Perhaps you should negotiate with him
next time.
Will there be a next time?
What was it the Prime Minister said?
See for those you can?
Then that's what we must do.
(Lively fiddle music)
(Chatter and laughter)
(Cheering)
Well, now, Ross,
you've been generous with us,
so we've a little gift in return.
(Onlookers gasp)
(They mush)
You all right?
Yes, you may well venture again
and, I suspicion, be kindly received.
But would 'ee not venture one last time
With Morvvenna?
CAROLINE: Are you not glad
to have your husband home?
In London he's exemplary.
Despite profuse temptation and provocation.
- You don't believe me?
- Yes.
Only, London's so far away
and we're much of the year apart.
Sometimes I wonder,
do Ross prefer it that way?
He in London, I in Cornwall.
Do distance leave him...unencumbered?
- Is that the word? _
- Then go to London With him.
He haven't asked me.
Nor will he.
He likes me here, to tend to his affairs.
It's as if we're in harness and work
alongside each other but 300 miles apart.
(Bell ringing)
In spite of George's efforts
to grind poor folk down,
the new infirmary's a grand thing, is it not?
It will make a difference.
I must congratulate George
when I see him.
Ross, do not.
For my sake, go not even near him.
As you wish.
RE VERE/VD.’ May I welcome you one and a
to our ceremony of dedication.
It is beyond the power of language to describe
a more afflicting scene of human misery
as so often presents itself in the wretched
hand of some indigent creature...
...who lies languishing on the hard
and greasy pallet of sickness,
dragging out his wearisome life,
either wasted by slow and intermittent fevers
or racked by excruciating pains...
(Whispers) Compose yourself, Morwenna.
You are a Whitworth.
It is for the comfort, succour, solace
and salvation of such wretched creatures
that we, of nobler impulse
and finer feelings,
have united in our generosity,
our compassion...
The renegade returns.
Too late to save his spaniel.
...and have today thrown open the doors
of the new Cornwall General Infirmary.
For now abideth faith, hope and charity.
But the greatest of them all...is charity.
Charity? Why not hope?
All these benevolent, well-meaning folk,
keen to alleviate distress
but how many people
care about preventing it?
Not just to give money to the poor,
but create conditions in which the poor
can earn money for themselves.
Is that a ludicrous notion?
You mistake the impulse, my friend.
People give because it soothes their
conscience and bolsters their reputation.
Few here are interested in genuine
empowerment for the poor.
(Quietly) Well played, George.
Use my cousin to bring down my bank
and lose me my savings.
Masterful.
Captain.
Bad sign.
- Basset has no good news for me.
- You always knew it was unlikely.
'11: In-
Mr Pascoe, I was sorry to hear
of your bank's demise.
Where must I go now
for investment advice?
To Basset, Rogers & Co, Where I've been so
fortunate as to secure a position as chief clerk.
Do I hear you've returned to Parliament, sir?
I represent the borough of St Michael.
- Ah. In Whose name?
- My own.
I meant, in Whose interest?
Falmouth's? Basset's?
I need no patron now, sir.
I own the borough.
And you, Captain Poldark.
How have you found Westminster?
I think I've learned a little.
- Yawned a little.
- Ah.
I thought I was of use
and then l...| thought again.
Do you find it corrupt?
What is not?
Is there much to choose in between politics
and other forms of power?
Just the same as this town.
- In What regard?
- Ross...
Take, for instance,
the bank failure which occurred.
Was it caused by improvidence
on the bank's part? No.
It was induced from outside by corrupt power,
corruptly deployed.
I have been away and have not
the benefit of common knowledge.
To whom do you refer?
If you do not know these names,
ask any of the traders of this town.
Anyone will tell you. Unless they're afraid
that lying, anonymous letters
- will be circulated about them too.
- Dear me. Ross...
this seems rather like a storm in a teacup.
Trying to find scapegoats
for a perfectly normal business failure.
I applaud your loyalty to a friend
but, as is often the case with you,
it has blinded you to the facts.
- Come away, Ross.
- And the facts are these.
Harris Pascoe was a foolish old man
- that were entrusted to his care.
- You lie!
Ross, enough.
- Come away. Come away.
- This is disgraceful!
- I will have you expelled from Parliament.
- Will you, George?
And how will you manage that?
Good gracious! Mrs Warleggan!
- Dwight, help her!
- Please. Let me through.
My carriage! Call for my carriage!
(Overlapping voices)
Were you feeling unwell prior to fainting?
No, not at all.
But it was so warm in the hall,
and very little air.
Of course.
Forgive me, if I may be so bold,
is there a possibility
that you might be with child?
I... No, I don't believe so.
You cannot be seen here.
Lady Whitworth will call the constables.
I mean no harm.
'Ee must know, I did give up all hope of 'ee.
But Sam say I should come again...
...and tell 'ee...
...I love 'ee still.
And so I ask one final time,
will 'ee not take me?
'Tis no sin to love me.
Can 'ee not see that there be hope?
I did think so once,
but now...
Please go...and never return.
I'm with child.
(Both laugh)
Oh, Lord, how you vex me, Ross.
Must you always rise to George's bait?
- Why did you not prevent me?
- Am I my husband's keeper?
That is your task, is it not?
To be the better part of me.
(He chuckles)
Oh.
I only Wish we'd achieved
more on Pascoe's behalf.
He deserves more
than to be a humble clerk.
(Footsteps)
This come for Mr Ross.
- Dr Enys...
- My love?
You know I am a hard creature.
And, as we've established, I have no heart.
And it's been weeks
since I returned from London.
And already you grow restless?
You wonder when you can decently return?
I've observed it, my love.
It's not in your nature
to be starved of company.
Now I know myself better,
I realise I am a creature that needs variety.
London as well as Cornwall.
This time, I want my husband with me.
If only to prove to your friends he exists?
- Am I so obvious?
- Only to me. (Chuckles)
(Door opens)
Forgive me...
I know you dislike Dr Choake.
You've not summoned him?
My dear, I had no choice.
This nausea has not abated for a week.
I cannot bear to see you suffer.
Gentlemen, I call to order this meeting
of the banking partners.
Before we begin, I must extend a welcome
to our newest partner, Harris Pascoe.
You will all note a last-minute addition
to our number.
Some of you may query this.
The name in question brings no money,
never will, not being the type to accumulate.
But he's making quite the name for himself
both here and in the capital,
so I think he is an asset in himself.
Captain Poldark,
I am delighted you could join us.
No-one was more surprised than I.
Lord, What a personage you be these days!
Everyone do Wish to join their name to yours.
Perhaps soon you'll be
too grand to talk to me.
It's only a matter of time.
Yet truly, Ross, as a banker and an MP,
will not all manner of inducements
come your way?
I should hope so.
But you'll remain immune?
Will I?
I know you.
In which case, perhaps I'd better decline
that very generous offer
which was made to me only today.
Which?
The use of a luxurious carriage
to take me to London.
Along with my Wife.
What?
You Wish me to decline?
You Wish me to come to London with you?
(They mush)
(Demelza sighs) Should I be going?
Naturally you're anxious.
But sometimes there are matters
that may only be attended to
when husband and Wife are together.
- Am I right, Dr Enys?
- Always, my love.
It's only a month.
I_ cannot believe
we must ride away and forget 'em.
Rest assured, in 20 years' time
they'll ride away and forget us.
Don't say that.
Let's wave goodbye.
- That's it. Look at them.
- (Whip cracks)
(Birdsong)
(Footsteps approaching)
Dr Choake prescribed several powders
to be taken thrice daily for a fortnight.
He recommends purging,
bleeding, blistering and...
No.
- My dear?
- That will not be necessary.
Dr Choake is mistook.
I'm not ill.
I'm with child.
My dear...
But... But this is wonderful news.
Oh, I cannot tell you how overjoyed...
No, but you must...you must rest.
You must allow me to take charge
of all your needs and wishes.
When... When may we expect...?
I think December.
- Or thereabouts.
- December.
Well, we will...
We will take a house in Mayfair.
We might even have the child in London.
And let us hope for a girl this time.
Would that not be delightful?
Oh, my dear.
Ah, Uncle...we have good news.
And I have bad.
Basset's Bank 'corporated Pasc0e's
to form the Cornish Bank.
Among the partners
listed in the new enterprise is Ross Poldark.
No matter.
Oh, Judas, Ross.
Why didn't you wake me?
How did I get like this?
You fell asleep fully clothed.
- I put you to bed.
- And failed to furnish me a nightgown?
- Do you need one?
- I need one now.
- Go and fetch it.
- (Demelza laughs)
A gentleman would fetch it for me.
That depends on the gentleman.
'Tis too bright, Ross.
One don't look becoming in daylight.
I disagree.
Are you going to hand it to me or not?
Not.
(Laughs)
(Shrieks)
- No, you can't have me.
- Oh, yes, I can.
You're my prisoner.
My present...
to be unwrapped at leisure.
- (Knock at door)
WOMAN: Sir.
Mrs Parkins says breakfast is served.
Tell Mrs Parkins we shall be down in an hour.
Or two.
I thought you liked me best in Cornwall.
A Demelza in Cornwall is a wondrous thing.
But a Demelza in London is even better.